docs(developer): Add the External QA Check article (#153)
crowdin/docs: src/content/docs/developer/modules/other/external-qa-checks.mdx

        <p><strong>Required:</strong> yes</p>
        <p><strong>Description:</strong> Module identifier within the Crowdin app.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>name</code></td>
      <td>
        <p><strong>Type:</strong> <code>string</code></p>
        <p><strong>Required:</strong> yes</p>
        <p><strong>Description:</strong> The human-readable name of the module.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>description</code></td>
      <td>
        <p><strong>Type:</strong> <code>string</code></p>
        <p><strong>Description:</strong> The human-readable description of what the module does.<br/>
         The description will be visible in the Crowdin Enterprise UI.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>runQaCheckUrl</code></td>
      <td>
        <p><strong>Type:</strong> <code>string</code></p>
        <p><strong>Required:</strong> yes</p>
        <p><strong>Description:</strong> The relative URL triggered when sending texts for QA validation.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code class="whitespace-nowrap">getBatchSizeUrl</code></td>
      <td>
        <p><strong>Type:</strong> <code>string</code></p>

>         <p><strong>Required:</strong> yes</p>

Reviewer: optional

        <p><strong>Description:</strong> The relative URL triggered when retrieving the batch size supported by the module.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>url</code></td>
      <td>
        <p><strong>Type:</strong> <code>string</code></p>

>         <p><strong>Required:</strong> yes</p>

Reviewer: optional

        <p><strong>Description:</strong> The relative URL to the module settings page.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>environments</code></td>
      <td>
        <p><strong>Type:</strong> <code>string</code></p>
        <p><strong>Allowed values:</strong> <code>crowdin-enterprise</code></p>
        <p><strong>Description:</strong> Set of environments where a module could be installed.<br/>
        This parameter is needed for cross-product applications.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Communication between External QA Check App and Crowdin

> The system sends texts for QA validation using `runQaCheckUrl` either from the Editor after saving translation or when QA Checks are performed. The app then processes the texts and responds back to the system with one of the two possible types of responses: [without QA issues](#expected-response-from-the-app-without-qa-issues) or [with QA issues](#expected-response-from-the-app-with-qa-issues). When Crowdin needs to determine the maximum batch size for the QA check, it sends a request to the app using `getBatchSizeUrl`, which responds with the appropriate batch size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The system sends texts for QA validation using `runQaCheckUrl` either from the Editor after saving translation or when QA Checks are performed. The app then processes the texts and responds back to the system with one of the two possible types of responses: [without QA issues](#expected-response-from-the-app-without-qa-issues) or [with QA issues](#expected-response-from-the-app-with-qa-issues). When the app needs to determine the maximum batch size for the QA check,  it sets the `getBatchSizeUrl` key in the `manifest.json` with the URL to an endpoint that provides the optimal batch size.
```

---
title: External QA Check Module
description: Add an external QA check for advanced AI-powered verifications.
slug: developer/crowdin-apps-module-external-qa-check
sidebar:
  label: External QA Check
---

> This module allows for the integration of advanced AI-powered QA checks, enabling verification of translations for nuanced issues that cannot be detected by [default QA checks](/enterprise/project-settings/qa-checks/) or JavaScript-based [Custom QA checks](/enterprise/custom-qa-checks/#creating-and-adding-custom-qa-checks).

Reviewer 2: Let's remove the `#creating-and-adding-custom-qa-checks' hash from the link. The user would be interested in the general description of custom QA checks

Author: Removed

* All users in the organization projects
* Selected users

## Structure

```json title="manifest.json"
{
  "modules": {
    "external-qa-check": [
      {
        "key": "custom-check-qa",
        "name": "QA Check",
        "description": "Description",
        "runQaCheckUrl": "/validate",
        "getBatchSizeUrl": "/batch-size",
        "url": "/settings/index.html"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Properties

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><code>key</code></td>
      <td>
        <p><strong>Type:</strong> <code>string</code></p>
        <p><strong>Required:</strong> yes</p>
        <p><strong>Description:</strong> Module identifier within the Crowdin app.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>name</code></td>
      <td>
        <p><strong>Type:</strong> <code>string</code></p>
        <p><strong>Required:</strong> yes</p>
        <p><strong>Description:</strong> The human-readable name of the module.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>description</code></td>
      <td>
        <p><strong>Type:</strong> <code>string</code></p>
        <p><strong>Description:</strong> The human-readable description of what the module does.<br/>

>          The description will be visible in the Crowdin Enterprise UI.</p>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
         The description will be visible in the Crowdin UI.</p>
```

Author: Considering that this module is only available in Enterprise, I'd suggest keeping the current version

        <p><strong>Required:</strong> yes</p>
        <p><strong>Description:</strong> The relative URL triggered when sending texts for QA validation.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code class="whitespace-nowrap">getBatchSizeUrl</code></td>
      <td>
        <p><strong>Type:</strong> <code>string</code></p>
        <p><strong>Required:</strong> yes</p>
        <p><strong>Description:</strong> The relative URL triggered when retrieving the batch size supported by the module.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>url</code></td>
      <td>
        <p><strong>Type:</strong> <code>string</code></p>
        <p><strong>Required:</strong> yes</p>
        <p><strong>Description:</strong> The relative URL to the module settings page.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>environments</code></td>
      <td>
        <p><strong>Type:</strong> <code>string</code></p>
        <p><strong>Allowed values:</strong> <code>crowdin-enterprise</code></p>
        <p><strong>Description:</strong> Set of environments where a module could be installed.<br/>
        This parameter is needed for cross-product applications.</p>
      </td>

>     </tr>

Reviewer 2: This field is missing in the structure example and has the wrong allowed values (only the `crowdin-enterprise`)

Author: > This field is missing in the structure example

For historical reasons, this is common to most articles about modules. Should I add the `environments` to the manifest.json structure in other articles as well?

> has the wrong allowed values (only the `crowdin-enterprise`)

This module is only available for Enterprise so the values are correct. Instead I removed the Crowdin-related info from the ## Access section.

  </tbody>
</table>

## Communication between External QA Check App and Crowdin

The system sends texts for QA validation using `runQaCheckUrl` either from the Editor after saving translation or when QA Checks are performed. The app then processes the texts and responds back to the system with one of the two possible types of responses: [without QA issues](#expected-response-from-the-app-without-qa-issues) or [with QA issues](#expected-response-from-the-app-with-qa-issues). When Crowdin needs to determine the maximum batch size for the QA check, it sends a request to the app using `getBatchSizeUrl`, which responds with the appropriate batch size.

## Request to the App from Crowdin for runQaCheckUrl

Request payload example:

> ```json collapse={25-66}

Reviewer 2: Wrong collapsible range. Adjust it to collapse the `sourceLanguage` and `targetLanguages` parameters in the project payload

Author: I can add two collapsible ranges this way `collapse={30-40,42-54}` to collapse only the content of the `sourceLanguage` and `targetLanguages` parameters while keeping the parameters visible

Reviewer 2: Sounds good to me

        "dialectOf": null
      },
      "targetLanguages": [
        {
          "id": "fr",
          "name": "French",
          "twoLettersCode": "fr",
          "threeLettersCode": "fra",
          "locale": "fr-FR",
          "pluralCategoryNames": ["one", "other"],
          "pluralRules": "(n > 1)",
          "pluralExamples": [1, 2],
          "textDirection": "ltr",
          "dialectOf": null
        }
      ],
      "name": "Project Name",
      "description": "Project Description",
      "fields": []
    },
    "file": {
      "id": 123,
      "name": "filename.csv",
      "title": null,
      "context": null,
      "type": "csv",
      "path": "/filename.csv",
      "fields": []
    }
  }
}
```

## Expected Response from the App (Without QA issues)

Response payload example:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "validations": [
      {
        "translationId": 123,
        "passed": true
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Expected Response from the App (With QA issues)

Response payload example:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "validations": [
      {
        "translationId": 456,
        "passed": false,
        "error": {
          "message": "Example error message",

>           "suggestedFixes": [ // optional; only applicable if running the QA check synchronously

Reviewer 2: Instead of a comment, use the [Adding labels to line markers](https://expressive-code.com/key-features/text-markers/#adding-labels-to-line-markers) feature (**Adding long labels on their own lines**)

![Screenshot 2024-10-09 at 14 41 40](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1af03f3c-03e7-475b-8054-3b4157fe2463)

Author: Updated this using the mentioned feature
